
Voodoo Shader Framework
v0.1.11.91

= Contents:
1. Summary
2. Installation
3. Adapters
4. Running Voodoo
5. Reporting Bugs
6. Contact & Legal
7. Resources


= 1. Summary

The Voodoo Shader Framework is a system designed to add shader support to various games and 
programs and provide a single target for shader authors, with a full set of useful features.

It uses a set of "adapters" to connect a single core with each target application; each adapter
specifies the exact connection details and implementation. The core provides a single, unified and
widely compatible base, providing unified and constant system for shaders to interface with. The
framework uses many features available in the Cg language, including compiling to both HLSL and 
GLSL (for OpenGL and DirectX compatibility), and a clear and concise syntax for accessing game data
and textures.


= 2. Installation

The Voodoo system function using a core-adapter model. The Voodoo core handles most functions, and
game-specific adapters interface it with each game in detail. 

The Voodoo core comes in an install wizard to simplify installation. This wizard creates the
registry keys Voodoo needs to function properly. To install the core, simply run this wizard and
Voodoo will be installed to your system.


= 3. Adapters

After the Voodoo core is installed, you will need to install adapters for any game you want to use
Voodoo in. Various adapters are available for a number of Direct3D 8 and 9 games, and OpenGL
adapters are in progress. 

Adapters can be found included with Voodoo or on the Voodoo Shader Framework site at:
	http://www.voodooshader.com

Adapters may or may not use install wizards. Each adapter will have documentation on how to install
and configure it. 

You should only use adapters built against the Voodoo core you have installed, mixing versions may
cause problems.


= 4. Running Voodoo

The precise behavior of Voodoo depends on the adapter and game it is being used with, but the most
common behavior is described here.

Voodoo will automatically hook into the game on launch, if it is properly installed. The Voodoo 
runtime will create a comprehensive log file in the game directory. In the future, VSF will use a
XML-based settings file to specify per-game configuration. The config file will be contained in the
game directory, while external resources will be in the Voodoo directory.

Debug builds will perform significant logging, potentially slowing the game down but providing much
information. Voodoo debug modules may be used in addition to traditional video API debuggers; they
are capable of intercepting both DirectX and OpenGL calls and logging the times, parameters and
results in some detail.


= 5. Reporting Bugs

Voodoo is a prototype (pre-alpha) library at this point. It undoubtedly has bugs. If you run into a
bug, please go to http://www.voodooshader.com and report the bug on the forum.

A bug tracker for all Voodoo elements, including shaders and adapters, will be deployed soon.


= 6. Contact & Legal

To contact the developer of the Voodoo project, please post on the Voodoo forum at:
	http://www.voodooshader.com
or direct emails to:
	peachykeen@voodooshader.com
	
Questions, comments, suggestions, reports, bugs, and almost anything else are welcome. If you have
any interest in testing or contributing to Voodoo, please get in touch as soon as possible.

You may also try to get in touch via the Bethesda Softworks forums or Bioware social boards, or on
IRC (nick peachykeen on chatspike, freenode and nwn2source).



Voodoo Shader Framework (c) 2010-2011 by Sean "peachykeen" Sube, All Rights Reserved.

The Voodoo Shader Framework, all associated binary or object files and source code is released 
under the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License. See the included LICENSE file for
more details.

The Voodoo Shader Framework has absolutely no warranty, as described in the license document. Some
support may be provided, at the developer's discretion; please use the above contact methods to get
in touch.


= 7. Resources

This section has a few useful links for various Voodoo resources. Some of these may not have
perfect uptime, if they are being moved or tweaked, but most should be relatively reliable.

Main site & forums:
	http://www.voodooshader.com
	
API documentation:
	http://docs.voodooshader.com/core (replace the /core with a given module to find docs for that)
	
Bug tracker:
	http://tracker.voodooshader.com (may be tied into the forum at some point)